# Life Changing Braised Pork Belly

_By Steven Syrek_

Of all of my recipes, this one is the greatest. If you are the kind of person who appreciates pork—and I mean, you hear the word "pork" and that's enough to revive your spirits no matter how deep and dark your depression—then prepare to enter pork nirvana. The original inspiration came from a cookbook published by [Mission Street Food](http://www.missionstreetfood.com), now justly famous for its [Mission Chinese](https://www.missionchinesefood.com) outposts in San Francisco and New York. If you're ever on either of the two North American coasts, I recommend a detour to visit one of them. My version of their classic pork belly recipe is the one I do from memory. It's a bit less specific, because I haven't referred to the cookbook in years, but the results are just as spectacular. It's even a victim of its own success, because now people come to our parties expecting it and, as you will soon find out, it's dangerous food to make. I was hesitant to include this one in a repo that is putatively focused on "quick and easy" meals, but it's just too good not to share with the world. And it's theoretically not too difficult or time-consuming, either. Make it once in awhile, and you'll have leftovers for a week. There's nothing quicker or easier than that.

## Ingredients

- A hefty slab of pork belly
- Water
- 1/3 cup kosher salt
- 1/4 cup sugar
- Dry roasted spices, various
- Braising liquid

## Preparation

1. Cut off some of the fat from the pork belly and chop it up. Alternatively, buy lard. You will need a fair amount of fat for the searing process.
2. Using a very, very sharp knife, score the fatty side of the belly with shallow slashes about half an inch apart. Do this again in the other direction to form a crosshatch pattern.
3. If you have a large piece of meat, you may want to cut it into pieces that will fit into your biggest frying pan comfortably.
4. Prepare a brine by combining the salt, sugar, spices, and water. I generally dump the dry ingredients into a huge ziplock bag, add some water, slosh everything around, add the pork, and then top up the water. You could also use a container and weigh the belly down with plates (the meat will float). For the spices, I use a completely random assortment of things like cumin seeds, fennel seeds, coriander seeds, whole star anise, a cinnamon stick, black peppercorns, whole allspice, green cardamom pods, juniper berries, and a bay leaf or two. That's just off the top of my head, though. If I were to go look in my cabinet, I might find another half dozen options. Just use a sprinkling of each. If you dry roast them first (and cool before adding the water), you'll release more of their flavors.
5. Refrigerate overnight or for half a day if you're pressed for time.
6. Remove the pork belly from the brine and pat dry. Remove as many of the spices as you can. I'm always too lazy to do this, and I always regret it later when they turn into charcoal during the searing process.
7. Heat the oven to 300 degrees Fahrenheit (150 degrees Celsius). If you want to really do things the right way, you should also heat your roasting pan and braising liquid, too (see step 10, below). I generally bring my braising liquid to a boil, and then leave it simmering until it's time for the roasting step.
8. Heat your largest pan over medium-high to high heat. When hot, add the pieces of pork fat and render them as much as possible. Or, if you're using lard like a smart person (smarter than me, that is), wait until it liquifies. You'll need enough to penetrate the crevices you scored into the meat. When the fat pieces are rendered, remove them and discard. Or eat them—they'll be delicious.
9. Next is the searing process. _Important: you are able to add giant, fatty pieces of meat into super-hot oil! You are very likely going to burn yourself. The results will be worth the agony, but be prepared to feel like you've been through a war afterward. Keep as much of your skin covered as you can. Wear oven mits while manipulating the meat, and remember that you also have a face_. One at a time, place the pork belly pieces into the pan, fat side down. You want to avoid overcrowding the pan, so sear them in stages, if necessary. If the cooking fat is hot enough, you should achieve a nice sear in fewer than 5 minutes. When the fat side is done, flip to sear the meaty side. Repeat until all the pieces are seared.
10. Place the meat into a roasting pan and cover with your braising liquid. For the braising liquid, you have many options. A basic pork or vegetable stock is fine. You could also use apple juice or beer combined with water. I like to add soy sauce to mine and sometimes a little wine. I have, in the past, even dumped the rendered pork fat from the searing step into the braising liquid. The point is to develop a master stock that you can use over and over again. There's a giant tub of dark, porky braising liquid in my fridge right now, as I type this. I don't worry about it ever going bad, because a) there's an inch thick layer of fat on top creating an airtight seal, b) it's so salty by now I doubt anything could live in it, and c) I boil it before using it. Once you have this stock in your repertoire, you'll never have to start one again from scratch.
11. Cover the roasting pan with [parchment paper and only parchment paper](https://www.marthastewart.com/269281/parchment-vs-wax-paper). Cover the parchment with two layers of foil. The second layer makes for a better seal around your pan, because it will crumple together with the first layer.
12. Put the pan in the oven, and go for a jog. When you return, your entire house/apartment will smell like pork. I hope you like that sort of thing. Braise for 4-6 hours, the longer the better as far as I'm concerned.
13. Remove from the oven and let cool. Remove the meat from the braising liquid. Strain the braising liquid into a container for future use. You have just amped up its porkiness for next time. Congratulations, chef.
14. Do what you will with the meat. If it's cooked correctly, it will fall apart when you try to cut it up, so just smash it. Serve in tacos or flatbread or just on its own. You can also refry the pieces to give them a satisfyingly crunchy exterior. This is the perfect technique for reheating the leftovers. Pork belly goes well with Sriracha, coriander sauce, tamarind chutney, candied dates, jalapeños, pickles, and many other things. Probably everything. Don't eat this too often, or you may prematurely die.